[MASWE-0005] Add Sensitive Data Hardcoded in the App Package (#2565)
OWASP/owasp-mastg: risks/MASVS-STORAGE/1-prevent-hardcoded/data-hardcoded-app-package/risk.md

profiles: [L1, L2]
mappings:
  - android: 'https://developer.android.com/privacy-and-security/risks/hardcoded-cryptographic-secrets'
  - masvs-v2: [MASVS-STORAGE-1]

---

## Overview

Sensitive data, including cryptographic keys and authentication material, hardcoded in the app package, source code, or compiled binaries, poses significant security risks. This data can be easily extracted by attackers, compromising the security of the application and its users.

## Impact

Hardcoding sensitive information in the app can lead to a variety of security issues, including but not limited to:
- Unauthorized access to user data or services.
- Bypassing of authentication mechanisms.
- Compromise of cryptographic keys, leading to decryption of sensitive data.

## Modes of Introduction

Sensitive data can be hardcoded at various stages of app development, including:
- During initial development, as a shortcut for testing.
- In the configuration files or source code for convenience.
- Within third-party libraries or dependencies that may not follow best security practices.

## Mitigations

To mitigate the risks associated with hardcoded sensitive data, developers should:

> - Use secure storage solutions provided by the platform, such as Android Keystore or iOS Keychain, to store sensitive information.

Reviewer: Even though the Android Keystore stores keys and certificates, I would not reference it as a storage solution. Storage solutions for Android are Jetpack DataStore and Room, SharedPreferences, etc. It's where the sensitive data will be stored (encrypted of course ;-) ).

> - Use secure storage solutions provided by the platform, such as Android Keystore or iOS Keychain, to store sensitive information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use platform specific solutions to encrypt sensitive data, such as Android Keystore or iOS Keychain, before storing them.
```

Reviewer 2: what about "Use platform specific solutions to encrypt sensitive data, such as Android Keystore or iOS Keychain."

- Implement proper key management practices, including key rotation and using environment-specific keys.

> - Avoid storing sensitive data within the app package or source code, and instead retrieve it securely from server-side services.

Reviewer: Should we give more options to the users as often they will need to store sensitive data locally?

> - Avoid storing sensitive data within the app package or source code, and instead retrieve it securely from server-side services.

Reviewer 2: Should we also include something like "consider pre-encrypting the sensitive data and securely retrieving the decryption key from retrieve it from secure server-side services"?

> - Regularly audit the codebase and dependencies for hardcoded sensitive data.

Reviewer: Should we give examples of tools they could use for that? For instance [gitLeaks](https://github.com/gitleaks/gitleaks) scans git commit for sensitive data such as password, api keys, etc.

> - Regularly audit the codebase and dependencies for hardcoded sensitive data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Regularly audit the codebase and dependencies for hardcoded sensitive data (e.g. using tools such as [gitLeaks](https://github.com/gitleaks/gitleaks)).
- While not foolproof, and **to be used as a last resort** when no other secure options are available, code and resource obfuscation and encryption can deter attackers by making it more difficult to analyze your app and discover hard-coded secrets.
```

> title: Sensitive Data Hardcoded in the App Package

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
---
title: Sensitive Data Hardcoded in the App Package
```

- Avoid storing sensitive data within the app package or source code, and instead securely retrieve it from server-side services that provide secure storage, access control, and auditing for sensitive data. For example, AWS Secrets Manager, Azure Key Vault, or Google Cloud Secret Manager are some popular managed secrets storage solutions. The app can securely retrieve the necessary secrets at runtime through secure, authenticated API calls.
- Where possible, generate cryptographic keys dynamically on the device, rather than using predefined keys, and ensure that they don't leave the platform-provided keystore. This approach reduces the risk associated with key transmission and storage.
- If data must be hardcoded, such as some API keys, be sure to configure them with the minimum required permissions to reduce the impact in case of exposure. Many services allow you to create keys with restricted access, which limits the operations that can be performed.
- Regularly audit the codebase and dependencies for hardcoded sensitive data (e.g. using tools such as [gitLeaks](https://github.com/gitleaks/gitleaks)).

> - While not foolproof, and **to be used as a last resort** when no other secure options are available, code and resource obfuscation and encryption can deter attackers by making it more difficult to analyze your app and discover hard-coded secrets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- While not foolproof, and **to be used as a last resort** when no other secure options are available, code and resource obfuscation and encryption can deter attackers by making it more difficult to analyze your app and discover hard-coded secrets.

```
